Welcome to the final tutorial!
Let's make sure you never run out of
disk again.
We'll grow a full repository online,
hand deleted space back to the pool,
and then teach the machine to do both
automatically.
Here's the model.
Every repository is a file in
one shared datastore pool.
Repositories can grow online while the
containers keep running.
But deleting data inside a repo
frees nothing by itself.
Trim is what hands the blocks
back to the pool.
And a policy automates both.
Fill the repository most of the way
and check:
the filesystem is getting tight.
Nearly full.
Time to grow.
Grow it online.
The encrypted container and the filesystem
expand while the containers keep running
— zero downtime,
zero unmount.
Four gigabytes now.
Nothing restarted.
Verify from inside:
same volume,
double the room.
The app never noticed.
Now the other direction.
Delete the big file — but watch:
the pool does not get the space
back yet.
Deleted blocks stay reserved inside the image.
Freed inside the repo,
still owned by the image.
Trim hands those blocks back to the
datastore pool,
online.
This is the step most setups forget.
Reclaimed.
The pool can breathe again.
Now stop doing this by hand.
The policy enables automatic growth up
to a ceiling you choose,
plus scheduled trims.
Policy stored.
The machine takes over from here.
Read it back:
auto-grow on,
ceiling at eight gigabytes,
trim on a schedule.
Set once,
forgotten safely.
And the view that ties it together:
storage health shows every repo's usage,
the pool,
and how much copy-on-write sharing is saving
you.
One view:
usage,
savings,
and room to grow.
And that's a wrap on the
series!
Eighteen tutorials,
from install to autopilot storage.
Your servers are yours again.
Thanks for watching!